# Build an Early Stage Startup Team With No Funding

## Common Mistakes CEOs Make Building Their Teams

1. **Hiring too fast**: It's tempting to hire quickly to fill a gap, but it's better to wait for the right person. A bad hire can set you back months.
2. **Not working well together**: Knowing people is not the same as working with them. Make sure you can work well together. Knowing someone before you buld te startup can reduce the risk of failure, but it's not a guarantee and often it's not enough. Diffrernces tend to merge in a high-pressure environment like an early stage startup. These differences either get resolved or the team blows up.
3. **The team isn't hungry**: The team needs to be hungry and willing to work hard. If they're not, they won't be able to keep up with the pace of a startup.
The life of the team should depend on the success of the startup. If the startup fails, the team should be out of a job. This is the only way to ensure that everyone is working towards the same goal. You need to incentivize the team to work hard and make the startup successful. When people are financially independant they are less likely to want to resolve differences. They will state things like "my way or the highway" and they will be less likely to work together. Such as using emotional blackmail to get their way.
4. **A team member doesn't have any business sense**: Everyoen in a small team is going to comment on and have an opinion on the business direction. Especially in the early days. From CTO to commuications, everyone needs to have a solid understanding of the business. If they don't, they can't make informed decisions. This is especially true for the CTO, nothing kills a startup quicker than a CTO with no business sense. The CTO is one of the highest profile and most strategic roles in an early stage startup.
5. **Not understand how VC and Fundraising work**: This causes unrealistic expectations and demands. This often leads to scaring investors away. It's important to understand how VC and fundraising work so you can set realistic expectations and demands. This is especially important for the CEO, as they are the face of the company and need to be able to communicate with investors effectively. Usually this is handled by patiently explaining to the non-business savy founders how VC and fundraising work and what is realistic. This is a very important part of the CEO's job. However, sometimes you just cant get through and thats what happens more often than not, and is one of the leading failure points of a startup.
6. **You build a team that isn't that good**: Fitting culturally and understanding the companies vision is only half the battle. Always strive for top-talent. Especially for the founding teams. The teams must be at the level required to be successful. There is no hiding someone on a small team, and this can lead to a lot of missed opportunities as investors will not feel confident in the teams ability to execute.

## The Qualities of a Good Team

1. You need people that will work for NO CASH UP-FRONT. A lot of people will be excluded from this list, but you have no money so do not fight it. You reward anyone that can go without a salary with a generous amount of equity. If the individual is cash-strapped you can suggest to them to do consulting to make ends meet. This is a good way to get people that are hungry and willing to work hard.
2. It is okay for a team member for do consulting work or to keep their day job. This is a good way to get people that are hungry and willing to work hard.
3. You need people that have integrity. This is the most important quality. You need to be able to trust your team members. If you can't trust them, you can't work with them. This is especially important in a small team where everyone is working closely together. Never hire someone that is ethically iffy. This is a sure way to destroy your startup or stimulate drama. No amount of ability makes up for a lack of integrity.
4. You need team members that are fanatical about what you are building. They need to be passionate about the product and the vision. This is especially important in the early days when things are tough. If they're not passionate, they won't be able to keep up with the pace of a startup.
5. Team members must be a fit for the culture. Too many CEO's over look the importance of a cultural fit. You do not want people that are clones of each other. The most accurate predictor of a startup's success is the company culture. If you get this right, you are off to the races. Only hire people that improve the culture. This is especially important in the early days when the culture is being formed.
6. Hire top talent. You need people that are experts in what they will be doing.

## How to Build a Team

1. Share you pitch deck with everyone that you recruited. This is a good way to get everyone on the same page. It also helps to get feedback on the pitch deck. You have to be transparent with your team. Will stuff get out about what you are trying to do? Yes, but that is the price you pay for getting a team that is on the same page, a requirement for building a great company.
